Radiance rail timber tax premium low
maintenance capped wood composite
railing system radiance rail is a
beautiful high quality rail system that
has no visible fasteners as you begin
installing your stair rails using
radiance rail you will need to rotate
the support rails 90 degrees
a typical stair rail height is between
34 and 38 inches measured from the
leading edge of the stair tread
vertically to the top of the rail be
sure to consult local building codes
prior to installation with post covers
in place rest your bottom support rails
on your stairs and transfer the length
and angle of the stair onto the rail
this angle will be the angle used
throughout the entire installation add
1/8 inch to your measurement to allow
for the corner detail on both post
covers using the final length of the
bottom support rail layout mark and cut
your top support rail and bottom rail
together as is shown for the deck
railings remember to rotate the support
rail for the angled balusters you will
need to drill screw holes in the top
support rail to keep the holes aligned
snap the bottom rail and the top support
rail together using the pre-drilled
holes in the bottom rail use a 3/16 inch
drill bit to mark the position of the
balusters holes in the top support rail
for aluminum balusters your custom rail
packs will not come pre-drilled and will
require pre drilling on the circle
markings of the top support rail and
bottom rail do not drill completely
through the top support rail you will
only want to dimple the surface separate
the rails after all the holes are marked
so you can pre-drill the top support
rail and the proper angle for the
balusters using a piece of scrap that is
cut to the same angle as your support
rails as a guide use a 3/16 inch drill
bit to drill the balusters screw holes
through the top support rail there are
also drill guides available at your
local hardware supplier it is also
helpful to drill out the holes in the
bottom rail at this angle
now you need to cut the balusters
measuring equally from each end mark the
length and angle for your balusters cuts
this angle is the same as used for
cutting the support rails lay out your
parts and assemble the railing as before
for best results pre-drill balusters at
the centerline now you're ready to
locate the top mounting brackets
pre-drill and mount your brackets flush
at each end as he did for the bottom
support rail slide your railing assembly
over your bottom support rail and Center
the top support rail on the post cover
mark the location of the top support
rail on the post cover from the outside
for the support block locations move the
rail assembly out of the way pre-drill
and mount the support blocks so that the
top surface inside aligned with your
marks reposition the rail assembly and
swing into place against the support
blocks pre-drill and fasten the assembly
to the post with 3-inch coated screws
cut your top rail to fit and slide into
position after pre drilling your top
support rail parallel to the balusters
screw the top rail into place always use
a 2-inch screw when installing the top
rail check the length before you drive
the screw to prevent it from coming
through the top rail place the post caps
on top of the post covers and you're
finished